# Data for the paper: "A new methodology to evaluate if local policies are effective during high PM2.5 episodes, with application on 10 European cities".

This repository contains the data used to prepare the manuscript:
"A new methodology to evaluate if local policies are effective during high PM2.5 episodes, with application on 10 European cities".

The manuscript proposes a methodology to evaluate if local emission reduction policies are effective during high level PM2.5 pollution episodes. Usually short-term action plans are designed to address high pollution episodes but it’s not clear, in the literature, how / if these plans are effective; and, furthermore, if these plans are really tackling high levels of pollution. In this paper we try to address this issue with a novel approach. In particular, this novel approach allows for the evaluation of the impact of emission reduction policies at different scales (from urban to EU scale) on different PM2.5 concentration levels. The methodology is applied to 10 big cities in Europe, to show on which sources and concentrations ranges, local actions to improve air quality are effective. Results show that for some cities local actions are effective on low level concentrations, in other cities on high level concentrations. This mean that, in some geographical areas, to tackle air pollution episodes, on top of local actions a coordinated approach (among cities or even at higher levels) would be useful. And also that effectiveness of local actions on city pollution are highly city dependent
